---
date: 2022-02-16
title: Top 6 Javascript Frameworks in 2021
cover: https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/0*nIp1qOLSydDrqQqT
---

Technology is evolving each day. Basic was replaced by Pascal, it was replaced by C and Java, and so on. Some technologies are here to stay. Others are history.

And whether you are at the beginning of your programming journey or looking into the technology stack for your project, learning what is in trends today is mandatory. Today, our team decided to cover JavaScript Framework that will be in trend during 2021.

## 1. React JS

React is known to be one of the most popular frameworks. I was launched by Facebook in 2003 to utilize it for native development. It has a broad community of programmers that allow improving efficiency by providing reusable components. React is an ideal choice for single-page applications (SPA), cross-platform development, and the creation of small business apps.

### ReactJS features

- It is possible to develop UI for most devices.
- React app consists of several components where each has its own access, logic, and controls.
- Follows a unidirectional data flow.
- Uses the JSX file, allowing it to easily read and understand the app’s code.

## 2. AngularJS framework

Angular is a versatile framework. It introduces some elements such as CLI, TypeScript support, two-way data binding dependency injection, directives, MVC, and others. Because of React and Vue’s introduction, Angular is experiencing the fall because of its complexity. Yet, it’s a perfect technology for large-scale applications.

### Angular features

- The two-way data-binding of AngularJS administers the synchronization between the DOM and the model, and vice versa.
- Has a lot of built-in services. It allows to render XMLHttpRequests. It uses HTTP.
- Offers built-in directives.
- Has a built-in dependency injection allowing the developer to build, understand, and evaluate apps.

## 3. VueJS framework

Vue is a framework for building the frontend of applications. It has detailed documentation and is known for its reusability, TypeScript support, and extremely simple to learn. It is excessively flexible, which may be considered as a disadvantage. The primary benefit of Vue is that it allows creating MVP fast.

### VueJS features

- Uses virtual DOM.
- Offers HTML templates.
- Has a lot of components allowing building custom reusable elements.
- Its data binding feature enables manipulation and assigning values to HTML attributes, changing style, setting classes, etc.

## 4. EmberJS framework

EmberJS is an open-source javascript framework for the creation of a wide range of web applications. Ember JS is an incredibly adaptable and flexible framework. The development stack can be generated by Ember or other tools. It offers programmers various components and layouts and its own backend architecture to give programmers all tools for building their own app-specific HTML tags.

### EmberJS benefits

- Open-source
- Used for building JavaScript apps that can be reused and maintained.
- Utilize HTML and CSS as the center of its development model.
- Ember Inspector tool can be used for debugging of the Ember apps.
- Uses templates that help to automatically update everything once the content is modified.

## 5. BackBoneJS library

BackboneJS is a JS library that helps build and structure client-side applications running in a web browser. Backbone.js provides an MVC framework that abstracts data into models, DOMs into views, and binds them to events. BackboneJS library is a perfect solution if you are looking for a better design with less code. It communicates through events so that the app’s code will not be messed up. The code of apps built with Backbone is simples, nicer, and easier to maintain.

### Backbone.Js features

- Perfect for one-page applications and building the frontend JavaScript functions.
- Provides a set of blocks such as models, routers, views, and others for building client-side web apps.
- Has a soft dependency on jQuery and a firm reliance on Underscore.js.
- Allows building client-side and mobile apps in a well-defined and organized format.
- Free and open-source. It has over 100 available extensions.

## 6. Meteor.JS framework

MeteorJS is one of the widely used backend JavaScript frameworks. The central concept of Meteor is building a backend in less time. That is why frontend developers can operate backend properly with Meteor without flipping between programming languages like PHP, Python, etc. It allows using one language everywhere.

### Meteor JS features

- Uses the same code for web, mobile, and desktop apps.
- Has open-source IDevE and allows the design of real-time web applications.
- Provides full-stack features for building web apps.
- Offers requisite packages for famous frameworks like Backbone.js, Bootstrap, etc.
- Has built-in live-browser reloading.

## Conclusion

Based on Efisco experience, there is no specific javascript framework that will fit everything. Each project is unique, and the choice of technology should rely on your requirements. Each framework has its own advantages and disadvantages, and you need to figure out which one has the features you need.

If you are the one who is looking for the best framework for your next project, trust the choice to professionals.

<hr />

Original post : [https://efisco.net/top-6-javascript-frameworks-of-2021/](https://efisco.net/top-6-javascript-frameworks-of-2021/)
